hi everyone welcome to the ipfs
core implementations weekly sync for
monday the 7th of september 2020.
i am making brain i will be your host we
are going to go through our high
priority initiatives
other initiatives and then block titans
parking lot q a that kind of thing it's
going to be awesome we're going to find
out
what is happening in the world of ipfs
on this a wonderful monday
so uh the first thing to talk about are
upcoming and ship releases
um i can talk about jsrpfs quickly we
have shipped jsrpfs
0.50 which is incredible
it has a pinning revamp which is gonna
deliver some pretty significant speed
improvements uh
when you're pinning things which you are
when you add things
um so if you're working on large data
sets you will very much want to upgrade
to this
uh it's going to make your life a lot
easier
we also have started accepting un8
arrays as inputs for things which is
really cool so we've always kind of
accepted them in the shape of buffers
but
internally they've been converted which
is slow
um and annoying and like the best way to
do it is basically to pass buffers as
they are which makes no sense in the
browser because buffers aren't a thing
um so now everywhere we accepted buffers
we now accept you in eight arrays the
difference is that now we only
give you back a unit array for things um
so this is going to impact you because
if you previously coded to the buffer
interface um you'll be used to doing
things like
tostring and passing like a base64 in
there
that's not going to work anymore because
we're using just the una array interface
um so you need to code to that in the
future and
your code will run in node and the
browser and dino and wherever
javascript takes us next on this crazy
journey that we're all on
um please code to you and eight arrays
uh also ships with the p2p 0.29 uh which
gives us
signed peer records gossip sub 1.1 and
ed2 5
5 1 9 keys properly uh which is great
so please do check it out um i am
finishing off the blog post
um and that will go live in the next few
days
cool um who can talk about guy pfs's rc2
do that yeah so we've got a few bug
fixes that we're slating uh we're gonna
do our second rc for the 0.7 release
this week
i believe that should be the last rc and
then we will
throw 0.7 over the fence next week for
everyone to consume
in addition to the psychiatric
deprecation there's lots of extra good
stuff in there
so i think we have a meet-up later this
week to talk about it
so be there
super cool super exciting
and next up is the pinning services
yep uh so we got two discussions
on the cosmetic api spec changes one is
about clarifying
the way we expect error responses to
look like and the second one
is being very specific
how a name filter works
namely that it's like partial much and
it's case
insensitive i think that's the latest uh
consensus
um and we are having a
meeting tomorrow to uh go over
integration between go ipfs pinning api
integration
pinning clients and i believe the way
web ui will
consume that as that will be the first
user of that api
cool i get the feeling i should put
together some kind of js
implementation of the spec as well
that would be quite cool yeah so for the
um client i think dean ended up
generating
using something like the this swagger
because they have the open api
generators
so he just generated the client um
and then created an adapter on top of
that to abstract out that so
there are some pretty pretty decent
generators for
um for js as well
and i think there's like a nice pretty
decent like prism
test client that mocks it out but
yeah would be good to do
approach makes a lot of sense cool
uh moving on ed two five five
one nine keys yeah no
update on those uh it's still on track
to land
in go ip episode seven next week um same
thing with sec io removal
um nothing new there it's happening
it's coming
so we'll also need to like i need i'll
open up a pr this week to actually
remove that from
um from js so we can
launch that in the next release
awesome uh next
thing on the list is the rust ipfs
initiative week 37
in big brother house yeah uh
um well first off there was a really
great community contribution that
landed um a lot of you probably know
rudiger
from actics contributed the dns lookup
so we can resolve our domains now from
within rust fps which is really cool
um but apart from that we just finished
a pretty big
cycle of work which lands us pinning
dht dns and
a very rudimentary file system store
for blocks based on multi hashes which
is really cool so
uh we're catching up and
the performance of the rust ipfs is
admittedly slightly slower than but
comparable to
the go implementation of adding large
data sets and things like that so that's
where we're at
it was awesome that's a lot of work yeah
did you guys use to just use the go
invitation for the for dht
you just have to just dive through the
code for that or
um no we i mean like a lot of the
ipfs stuff we just implement whatever
implementation of
p2p is on the ecosystem so we've um
just kind of wired up the rustler p2p
cademlia and
and all that stuff so one thing that's
name
is autonet so dht publishing
is like we're not we're not really sure
if we're actually publishing anything
because we're not doing any nap punching
uh but there's a pr in place for that in
the p2p
so we're just kind of waiting around for
that
nice i guess it'd be good to get it on
to test ground somehow
and see people want to catch up and
talk about that that'd be cool not gonna
be around uh
next item on the list is js improves
discoverability and connectivity
yeah so uh for the first part the author
relay
i got back to to it last week and i
basically finished the review
that jacob provided me a while ago
and i added some other stuff that
i intended to add but for the first
cycle of feedback i didn't finish it so
it's now the first iteration it's
ready for review jacob will hopefully
review it this week
and yeah so the next iteration on the
author relay
will basically include what is missing
which is
uh updating the network when appear
multi-other changes so that we propagate
that information to all the other peers
and
also to find remote realizing the
network
while basically now you will connect to
appear
and if the peer as the relay protocol
and also supports up
you will basically add it as autorelay
according to the limits that you can
configure before
but yeah but the goal is to also try to
find uh
realize if you are not connected to them
uh regarding uh the connection manager
overall
uh i spent the the end of last week and
today's morning
basically finishing uh a epic issue
which contains
basically uh six different milestones of
all the work that i think we need to do
regarding the connection manager overall
uh the big goals here
are basically to align with the
rendezvous and the author relay work
and we need to the connection manager to
be more intelligent so that we
for example don't close a connection
that we have with the
auto relay node that we are buying to
and all
other kind of similar flows and also
this is really important
for the dht that should be our work
after this and so yeah i think the
connection manager
will be a big thing for the next couple
of releases
so the the first three milestones that i
created
are the ones that i think we will need
to tackle first
hopefully for the next release which
basically
are to improve the watermark
observations we currently have basically
a naive implementation where if we are
getting to the maximum threshold
we just disconnect from a peer without
any like
kind of knowledge for example we should
check if
the peer that we are going to disconnect
uh
as running protocols that we want or it
basically appear that we are connected
to
result network and other kind of uh
characteristics that you should we
should check and i have kind of
described them in the milestones if you
want to check it
and then we also need to uh guarantee
that the connections
that we want to uh are kept alive which
is not
a thing right now and also another thing
that
go already as that we should have is
basically to protect connections which
is kind of what i talked about before
that we need to protect the connections
on the peers that we
really rely on other example uh
would be if we want to be attached with
a
circuit relay node we need to guarantee
that this connection
will not be closed and yeah it's pretty
much that and i will
start working on this epic this week
yeah i'll get feedback make sure i get
feedback on both of those tomorrow
that's awesome um that is it for the
uh high priority initiatives so moving
on to the other initiatives
uh anything on the sub domain gateway
um it's in support for ipns names
with those shorter keys scheduled to
land with 0.7 and it's mostly
we are waiting for that for a
blog posts and uh
because like if we post a blog post then
we expect partners like cloudflare to
also support that
and it takes time to trickle down all
those
updates so it will be a few weeks before
that lands but
that's the only remaining part i think
cool there's been no update
on unix of westerly 1.5 incarcerated as
far as i know
uh moving on to the pinning system
revamped that is shipped
totally shipped all aboard in a shipped
um which is awesome uh
no erratically so i'd imagine there's no
update on the dac service
or improving the web ui file app
um i can give a quick update on web ui
file ads the need for
buffering entire thing before you import
it
over http api that patch by iraq
landed and it's scheduled to be released
with web ui
211 hopefully this week
additional improvements around progress
reporting will land in the next release
cool and that's it
for the um other initiatives um does
anybody have anything they want to
propose for a design review
cool any blockers and asks
i'm sort of blocked on the
um
so we do like uh user agent sniffing on
um all requests that come in via the
http api
and i want to switch the electron
renderer to use native
fetch instead of the port of the node
http module
so it needs a an update to the um go
ipfs
uh check on the user agent which i've
pr'd and nadine has just merged and
hopefully that's going to get
out in the next rc so it will be in 0.7
which will be radical
because it will neatly halve the time it
takes to run
electron tests in ci because they are
really really slow um so i'm sort of
blocked but that's actually just started
moving in the last hour or so so that's
actually quite cool
uh anyone else got a blocker got any
blockages that need unblocking
no it's not funny jacob
cool uh any questions
anything for the parking
all right that's amazing this has been
the uh arguments confrontations weekly
sync
uh for monday september the 7th 2020
uh please fill in your async updates
review uh
and have a nice time on the internet um
stay safe don't touch your face
just because we bought a chronovirus
doesn't mean it's over
uh see you all in the future hi